You know, there's a story that I heard
a long time ago that I never really
forgot.
The story about a father and three children.
This father was a prominent man, wealthy businessman,
community leader, and his youngest son was getting
married.
And he decided this was going to be
sort of the cornerstone of his legacy.
He was going to make a wedding that
was going to blow the video away.
And he would invite the community and all
of his clients and colleagues and really bask,
if you will, in his wealth and his
honor.
So he calls up his other boys, his
oldest son, a prominent son to himself, a
businessman, his family of prominence.
Everybody knows him in the community, well dressed.
And he said, listen, the wedding is coming
up.
I want you to come, of course.
And I want you to buy whatever it
is that you need, because this wedding, in
many ways I'm seeing as a manifestation of
my honor, whatever you buy for me, it's
on the house.
So dress yourself, dress your family.
I want you to come looking amazing.
You're my representative.
He says, absolutely.
He calls up his second brother, and now
the second brother wasn't like the first.
The second brother was actually someone who has
struggled his whole life.
Never really found this place.
Never really had any real success.
And unlike his older brother, how he looked,
what he did, how he dressed, him and
his wife and his kids were almost the
opposite.
And he gives them the same offer.
Day of the wedding comes, and the children
pull up in front of the wedding hall.
The first son gets out and looks, forget
about it, picture perfect, tailored suits, material for
the dresses that come from places that no
one even ever heard of.
The hair, the makeup, everybody matched perfectly.
The family comes out, the oldest family, and
they look amazing.
Everybody's hedged to her.
And the second part pulls up.
I say, I'm her brother.
I have the middle brother.
And the middle brother comes out looking almost
the opposite.
Tattered clothing, suits that didn't match.
No one's hair was done.
Not even really clean.
Clothing that looked old.
And much like in the contrast, they came
out very, very differently than the first brother.
So the wedding goes on, the wedding's wonderful.
Day after the wedding, the oldest son calls
his dad and goes, dad, where do I
send the bills?
He goes, what do you mean?
He goes, no, you told me, whatever I
buy in your honor, you're covered.
So like, way rather than quite a bill.
So Secretary just sends your finance department, like
I just want to know where it goes
because I can use the reimbursement check.
And the father says to the son, I'm
not paying for it.
He goes, what do you mean?
He told me.
Father goes, I told you that I'm going
to pay for that which you buy for
my honor.
He goes, I know.
He goes, you didn't buy your clothes for
my honor.
You bought it for your honor.
He goes, no, I didn't.
And he goes, really?
He goes, don't you know your brother?
Have you not known him your whole life?
Don't you know he would have showed up
that way?
Don't you know that he would have came
to where he looked?
Doesn't your wife know that her sister-in
-law would have looked that way and the
kids?
If you really were worried about my honor,
what you would have done was realize that
I'm paying for it and taking your brother
shopping.
You would have looked around and goes, my
dad is going to see his middle child
looking the way he looks.
I've got to take care of my dad.
It's for his honor.
This is his moment.
You would have went out and spent money
not only on your own stuff.
You would actually spend money on their stuff.
That would have been for my honor.
You didn't do it for my honor.
You did it for your honor.
I'm not paying for your honor.
You know, I heard that story years ago.
And when I heard the story, it clarified
for me something in my mind I never
understood.
Because I'll teach us that when you daven
for somebody else, your telos are answered first.
Why would that be?
You have a personal issue with Hashem.
You know the extent of your suffering.
It should be that only you can daven
for yourself.
Only you can really represent the depths of
the feelings that you have.
You should daven for other people, but why
is there like a gimmick that you daven
for somebody else, you daven for you first?
What does that mean?
How is that?
Why would that work?
But through the story, I understood the answer.
The end of the day, why we're in
this world is for the honor of the
king.
We are here for him.
From the second we left Egypt, all the
way to this moment, the number one focus,
our number one mission is honor to the
king.
That's why we are who we are.
Maybe the reason why we have challenges is
because in life it's hard to understand people.
It's hard to understand what people are struggling
with.
And maybe Hashem is giving us challenges because
it allows us to be sensitive to other
people.
It allows us to see the world and
understand people's needs in a much more tangible
way.
But at the end of the day, do
we care about our honor or his honor?
If we care about our honor, then every
time we feel pain, we just want to
get it solved.
We just want to be better.
If we care about his honor, then we
don't want anyone to have pain.
Why would Hashem want any of his children
to suffer?
Why would Hashem have honor if some of
his kids are not doing as well as
others?
If some of his kids are struggling with
something, any single pain or deficiency in this
world takes away from the honor of the
king.
And so when Hashem sends us a pain,
when he sends us a challenge, if we
cared about his honor, you know what we
would do?
It's around the question, just help them.
I realize it now.
And of course I want to be part
of this, but please help this person and
that person and this person and that person.
Because if you help others, then you, your
honor will be manifest.
I want you to win.
And you're the dad.
And you don't win when one child wins.
You win when all the children win.
Maybe the secret of why we pray for
other people is because we realize that the
reason why I have challenge may be so
that I'm sensitive enough to pray for somebody
else.
Now when I worry about my brother or
my sister, Hashem says, you really care about
me.
You really care about me?
Well, then if you care about me, then
maybe the block doesn't need to be there
anymore.
My brach is that all of us, no
matter what challenges that we face, is that
we use the challenge to be able to
see the needs of others and that we're
sensitive enough to realize that the greatest thing
that I could do in this world is
give honor to the king.
And when I hope and when I pray
and when I spend, if you owe my
money, if you owe my prayers to dress
up and to better the lives of everybody
else, I am showing him that it's his
art that I care about first.
And with that, maybe Hashem works out and
goes, it's about time you got it.
And if you care about that, well then,
I'm going to make sure that you get
answered first.
Heard about Tuba of Together for Shaddokhem?
Here it is in 60 seconds.
On Friday, August 12, Tuba of at 10
a.m., over half a million Jews across
the world will unite in Tula for Shaddokhem
and Yad Vasachan's Tuba of Together.
There will be a live online Tula event
being led by Leland Giddeilim, Rabonim, and Speakers,
where you can recite the eight chapters of
Tula together with Klal Yisra'el.
Watch it live at tubaoftogether.com.
At the same time, Tammiidih HaChama will be
davening in Amukah for your names for Tula.
This year, for the first time, there will
be a live pre-Tuba of musical inspiration
on Thursday, August 11, at 7.30 p
.m., the night of Tuba of.
The live event will feature performances from today's
leading music stars, plus inspiration by Rabbi Y.
Y.
Jacobson.
Right now, go to tubaoftogether.com to download
the Tulum to be set on Tuba of.
Submit your names for free and watch incredible
videos about Tuba of together.
Thursday night and Friday morning of Tuba of,
tune in for the live events.
You, yes you, watching this now, your participation
is important, as we all unite on Tuba
of together.